The NEWSTAR memo system
-----------------------

This memo proposes a format for software memo series. 
The vital element in this format is the Memo Header which gives
all vital information. The various header elements are described 
with their possible values,

The only implementation currently available is for Newstar memo's. Some
sample headers from this series are added.


1. Function of memo's
---------------------

The function of a memo series is to document a design process and to 
offer a convenient place where notes of various kinds can be dumped.

In order to achieve this, it is essential that the header of each note
clearly states what the purpose, subject and intended audience is.

That way, it is sufficient to browse the headers of memo's in order
to find information relevant to a certain person or problem


2. Layout of memo headers
-------------------------

A memo header consists of the following fields, some of which are 
required, others are optional:

 * Name of memo series + index number                 [Required]

   In fact the name of the memo series is a first order
   selection of the intended audience. 
   The serial number should be assigned on a central basis (preferably 
   some automated procedure) and runs incrementally from 1.

 * Subject                                            [Required]

   The subject or description should be one line of highly descriptive
   information. Since this line will show up in overview indices, 
   it has to contain sufficient information to identify the scope
   of the memo.

 * Author                                             [Required]

   This is just a textual identification. Preferably some database
   with additional information on Memo authors should exist (including
   up to date information on (eMail) addresses).

 * Date                                               [Required]

   This should be the date of issue of the original memo, for
   updates see the next section

 * Status                                             [Optional]

   Possible values:  Info Proposal Design 

   More than one value may be given, the list of possible values
   may be extended

   IF MISSING a status of Info should be assumed

 * Action                                             [Optional]

   Possible values:    Decision  Read  Feedback
   Optional extension: "before <date>"

   The action should be taken before the specified date, if no date
   is given this is NOT equivalent to "as soon as possible" (in that
   case a specific date should be given) but to "not necessary"

   IF MISSING a status of Read should be assumed

   
 * To                                                 [Required]

   The intended audience. This may be a specific name (e.g. Dr. P. Puk),
   a generic name (WHISP Project Team) or The ... Memo Series

 * Summary                                            [Required]

   The full header including the summary should not exeed a single
   page. Since Memo's are intended to be brief, no more than the
   summary will be required in many cases.

 * Replaces                                           [Optional]

   Gives the numbers of the memo's that become obsolete by this one.

 * Update on                                          [Optional]

   Gives the numbers of the memo's are updated by this one.


3. An example: the Newstar Memo Series
--------------------------------------

The Newstar memo series is part of the hypertext network of Newstar 
documentation. The header layout in current practice does not follow
the proposal in all details. 

The body of the memo can be in any form (WP, ASCII text, Hypertext, LaTeX).
In order enter the memo into the memo series, one enters the command

    ndoc memo new [file]

This will assign a unique number to the memo and create an empty memo
header. You will be prompted for all header entries, and in addition 
be asked for memo's, bug-reports and source files with which the memo 
is concerned. These references appear as hypertext links in the on-line 
version of the memo, and in normal text in the memo header.

The specified file (which may be "none") will be moved into the directory
with memo headers. The final header page will be presented for editing, 
together with the associated file. This is the time to fill in the summary
(which may be copied from the associated file).

After completion, an index of all memo's will be automatically updated.


4. Updates on existing memo's
-----------------------------

If a memo is updated, it is advised to enter the updates as a separate memo,
indicating the differences only. If a modified text is stored, users are 
forced to read through the entire memo and the preceding version to find 
the differences. 

Only if a memo has been changed substantially, so it is in fact better 
to go through the whole text once more, a new memo can be created to 
replace the original one.

The header fields "Replaces" and "Update on" should be used to 
indicate such cases.

In the on-line implementation of the Newstar Memo Series, the headers
of the updated/replaced memo's are modified to reflect this information
as well. People keeping a paper copy can replace their header pages
with the updates.



