I,Q,U,V,p,angle lightcurves using NEWSTAR program NGCALC


Ger de Bruyn 15-juni-1994

The program NGCALC can extract 1-dimensional (Visibility data versus
time/HA) data from a SCN-file. These can then be processed to yield
lightcurves of all Stokes parameters for a range of baselines.

A 'typical' run would go as follows:

1) exe ngcalc/ask

The /ask qualifier is only required if you wish to subtract the STORED
selfcal MDL from the selfcal'ed visibility data.

Input:
 - the name of the NGF file you wish to create
 - select option EXTRACT
 - specify the name of the SCN-file
 - select the SETS
 - select the type of information you want to process (e.g. DATA)
 - select the polarizations (specify XYX if you wish to form all
   Stokes parameters)
 - select the INTERFEROMETERS (e.g. FM)

This is a slow program! It takes about 20 minutes CPU (on an HP710)
for the extraction of 12 hours of data (720 scans of 1 minute) on 40
baselines on one frequncy channel for each of the four XX,XY,YX,YY
correlations. This then creates 40x4 files or 'plots' as they are called in
the program.

These plots will have a six-digit number containing information on the
baselines, polarizations and frequency channel.

2) Use the option MERGE to merge different HA-sections

If the 12 hour observations was cut into more than one part, each
HA-sector will get a separate file. You can then merge these two or
more HA-slots into one file, where the appropriate HA information is
preserved.

You can use a double-loop here. One loop might run over polarization
and one loop over baselines; e.g. 4,...1, 69,....1 if you had
XX,XY,YX,YY and baselines from 9A (a 0 in the fifth digit) through 0D
(a 68 in the fifth digit)


3) Use option CALC, SHIFT to shift the visibilities to the source you
wish to study

Use the position (l,m in arcseconds) as given in your MODEL. You may
(have to) use a loop again.


4) Use the option MERGE to average all baselines you wish to use

After the shift operation the source should be in the phase centre. This
means that the source signal is contained in the COS part of the visibility.
You can check, using the plotting facilities, whether indeed the SIN signal
is consistent with noise around zero.

You may wish to loop here over the fourth, polarization, index (e.g.
4,...1)


5) Use the COMBINE option to form Stokes I,Q,U and V

Examples: 
Q = (#0-#1)/2, where #0 is the YY file and #1 is the XX file.
V = -0.5*imul(#0+#1) where #0 is the XY file and #1 is the YX file


6) If required, smooth the data using option CALC, SMOOTH


7) You can use the PLOT option at the various stages to see whether the
results look as 'expected'

8) Use option MON to dump the interesting files in an ASCII file for
further processing with SUPERMONGO. The mongo file will contain as its first
column the HA.

  

-----------------------------------------------------------
N.B. There are a number of things to watch out for when using NGCALC

1) Files can be addressed with the full six-digit index or with a # whichever
you find more convenient. Note, however, that when using the #'s you can
NOT use loops. 

2) There is some logic to the index numbering system but it takes a while to
get use to it. 

3) When trying to form the polarization angle 0.5*atan(U/Q) you run into 
the problem that this angle as calculated will be within the range -45 to
+45 degrees, while of course the true polarization angle is defined 
within boundaries -90 and +90 degrees

4) Unfortunately, the delete option does not yet work. If you have made a
new file with erroneous specifications you would ideally like to
throw it away because you might forget that it is unusable. 

5) When using the loop system all the plotfiles that will be
tried in the looping must be present.

E.g. if you have 40 FM baselines in the NGF file they are numbered 0,2,8,9,....68
with some numbers not occurring (This number is the order in which the
baselines exist in the SCN file). Hence, if you wish to loop over baselines
then you could say 69,....1 but then the program will stop after it has 
done the first baseline, because baseline ....1 does not exist.
